Study Design/CodeBook

Data from the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset was used to conduct summaries.
The dataset reference is:
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws
www.smartlab.ws

The dataset contained measurements from 30 participants who conducted walking, walking up stairs, walking down stairs, sitting, standing, and laying activities. Data was measured/collected using smartphones. The data collected was processed using filters and some measurements were furthered broken down to specify the body and gravity acceleration parameters for both time and frequency. 

The dataset included

activity_labels.txt - contains a file with the 6 activities performed during study
features.txt - contains a list of 561 different measurements
subject_test.txt - contains list of the participants who were considered test subjects
subject_train.txt - contains list of participants who were considered training subjects
X_test.txt - contains the data from the test participants
X_train.txt - contains the data from the training participants
y_test.txt - contains the respective activities from the test participants
y_train.txt - contains the respective activities from the training participants

run.analysis.R - script that reads in the variables from each data set; merges the subjects, and activities performed; tidys the data to remove columns and rows based on the following assumptions:
The only measurements of interest are the mean and standard deviations for each axis for the body acceleration time & frequency, gravity acceleration time, body acceleration jerk time & frequency, body gyroscope jerk time, and body gyroscope time & frequency. 
Participants conducted activities multiple times; the data was reduced to account for average time/frequency per participant per activity.

The data output from run.analysis.R  - alldata.csv is 180 rows by 50 columns. the time domain columns are in millisecs and frequency domain columns are in Hz.


